---
layout: post
title: Being Grateful and Feeling Rich
date: 2024-07-28 12:00:00
description: reflection
tags: mentalhealth
categories: private
code_diff: true
---

It's been a while that I embarked into an exploration journey involving the keywords mindfullness and gratefulness. It is ongoing. 
Most people run too fast through every day, and forget to look around and just appreciate being here. I am the same. Focussed on some things, it's easy to forget to pause, and look around. At times I try to be more appreciative of the moment, the simple things and the everyday things which fade into something which we take for granted. 


## Reflection

I never experienced war. I was fortunate enough to be born in a country which was not affected by war on it's soil during my life time. 

I never experienced that my house burned down or that I lost all my possessions. I always had a roof over my head. 

I never experienced a life-threatening illness. I am mostly healthy. 

I never experienced hunger for long. I always got food eventually.

I can go to a supermarket close to me and buy whatever food I like. This is a luxury, which I did not always have. Especially during my studies I had to make careful choices to make the most of the money which I had. 

Today, I got to experience sun, and enjoy a nice cup of coffee with my loved ones. 

I am grateful.
I am rich. 

## Back to Work
Tomorrow I will be returning back to work after vacation. There are many things I am looking forward to and others which I don't. I feel privileged that I like my job, and can make a living with it. 

There were many emails piling up during my vacation time although it is the quite time of the year in Denmark where many are taking holidays, and mostly respect other people holidays. Some emails were written with this thought in mind. Others were clearly written expressing urgency. 

However, I am lucky enough that nobody's life depends on me and my work. Some people impose urgency, where I might not see it. While empathy helps me to understand others, I am aware that you do not always have to act as they seem fit.  
If you choose to accommodate everyone who expresses urgency, you let them dictate your life. You might risk loose yourself. You have to choose what is important, when you can if you can. It is a privilege to be aware of this choice and to be able to carry it out. 
It also give you back some power. What to do is not their responsibility. It is yours. 
