---
layout: post
title: How to block (most) ads on the net
date: 2024-06-20 18:30:00
description: If you want to get rid of advertisement while surfing, you might want to read this.
tags: fail
categories: tools
code_diff: true
---

* toc line
{:toc}

The internet is full of ads, and mostly

how to block ads at home with Pi-hole

RaspberryPi

I followed the instructions on [this website](https://www.raspberrypi.com/tutorials/running-pi-hole-on-a-raspberry-pi/). 
However, since websites are due to change, I will collect the most relevant steps here. (no guarantees)

# Hardware Raspberry Pi
So which hardware do you need?

# Setting up Raspberry Pi

# Setting up Pi-hole
- type "pihole status" to check if it is running

# Final 
Does it work?
- check [this](https://adblock-tester.com/) page. My advise is to check this before, and after you started the raspberry pi, and verify that the score is higher after.
- You should also be able to log into the [pi-hole admin interface](http://pi.hole/admin/index.php), once everything is running.

# Problems and Solutions

1. Problem: Computer crash
When I first attempted to flash the OS on the SD card, my Windows computer would always crash, and I received a blue screen.
After looking around, it seemed to be a common problem with some Windows computers.
Solution: If possible I recommend trying another computer. I guess I should have worked on my Linux machine. However, because I am stubborn, I eventually succeeded when I closed *all* other programs. Finally, after several attempts the installation was successful.
2. Problem: SLOW
The Pi Zero 2W has 512M of memory and you may not have enough swap space to do the update.

From a Terminal window, enter the command "swapon". The answer gives the file name, size, and usage of the swap file.

The default swap file size is 100M and that probably is not sufficient with 512M memory.

Edit the file /etc/dphys-swapfile and change CONF_SWAPSIZE=100 to 1024. Reboot and then before doing anything enter the command "swapon" in a terminal window to see the swap space usage.
cite from [here](https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=359240).
3. Problem: raspberry does not boot
Finally, you are all set, and maybe want to use the raspberry pi without a connection to a display. When I did that, I encountered the problem that the raspberry pi did not fully boot.
I found out that this can happen without a monitor plugged into hdmi.
However, there is a solution. 
Adding hdmi_force_hotplug=1 to /boot/firmware/config.txt seems to have solved the problem.

[source](https://forums.raspberrypi.com/viewtopic.php?t=253312)

